en/hardware/drone_parts.md, before:

# Hardware (Drones & Drone Parts)

This section contains information about complete pre-built PX4 vehicles, and components that you can use if building your own drones:

- [Complete Vehicles](../complete_vehicles/README.md) - Complete Ready to Fly (RTF) or near-RTF vehicles (i.e. may require battery, RC controller)
- [Flight Controllers (Autopilots)](../flight_controller/README.md) - Autopilot hardware options (including [Pixhawk Series](../flight_controller/pixhawk_series.md))
- [Flight Controller Peripherals](../peripherals/README.md) - Components that can be attached to the flight controller (GPS, compass, motors, rangefinders, etc.).
  The device pages also explain how to configure the components to work with PX4.
- [Companion Computers](../companion_computer/README.md) - Separate "mission computers" that enable advanced flight control features such as [Computer Vision](../computer_vision/README.md) (and their [peripherals](../companion_computer/companion_computer_peripherals.md)).

Commit message:

Modify hardware selection in line with Silvan suggestions

en/hardware/drone_parts.md, after:

# Hardware Hardware Selection & Setup

This section contains information the components that mauy be used in a drone, and how they are set up.

<!-- Add new list here

- [Complete Vehicles](../complete_vehicles/README.md) - Complete Ready to Fly (RTF) or near-RTF vehicles (i.e. may require battery, RC controller)
- [Flight Controllers (Autopilots)](../flight_controller/README.md) - Autopilot hardware options (including [Pixhawk Series](../flight_controller/pixhawk_series.md))
- [Flight Controller Peripherals](../peripherals/README.md) - Components that can be attached to the flight controller (GPS, compass, motors, rangefinders, etc.).
  The device pages also explain how to configure the components to work with PX4.
- [Companion Computers](../companion_computer/README.md) - Separate "mission computers" that enable advanced flight control features such as [Computer Vision](../computer_vision/README.md) (and their [peripherals](../companion_computer/companion_computer_peripherals.md)).

-->
