en/flight_controller/README.md, before:

# Flight Controller (Autopilot) Hardware

This section lists autopilot hardware that can be used to run the PX4 flight stack).

This list is not exhaustive (it covers controllers documented in this library).
There are other compatible flight controllers and variants, including those [documented here on Github](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/#supported-hardware).

:::tip
You can also try PX4 on a [Complete Vehicle](../complete_vehicles/README.md) (consumer drones and reference platforms that can run PX4).
:::

- [Pixhawk Series](../flight_controller/pixhawk_series.md)
  - [Silicon Errata](../flight_controller/silicon_errata.md)
- [Pixhawk Standard/Supported Autopilots](../flight_controller/autopilot_pixhawk_standard.md)
  - [CUAV Pixhack v3 (FMUv3)](../flight_controller/pixhack_v3.md)
  - [CUAV Pixhawk V6X (FMUv6X)](../flight_controller/cuav_pixhawk_v6x.md)
  - [Drotek Pixhawk 3 Pro (FMUv4pro)](../flight_controller/pixhawk3_pro.md) - Discontinued
  - [Hex Cube Black (FMUv3)](../flight_controller/pixhawk-2.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 4 (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/pixhawk4.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 4 Mini (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/pixhawk4_mini.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 5X (FMUv5X)](../flight_controller/pixhawk5x.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 6X (FMUv6X)](../flight_controller/pixhawk6x.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 6C (FMUv6C)](../flight_controller/pixhawk6c.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 6C Mini (FMUv6C)](../flight_controller/pixhawk6c_mini.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk Mini (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/pixhawk_mini.md)
  - [Holybro pix32 (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/holybro_pix32.md)
  - [Holybro pix32 v6 (FMUv6C)](../flight_controller/holybro_pix32_v6.md)
  - [mRo Pixracer (FMUv4)](../flight_controller/pixracer.md)
  - [mRo Pixhawk (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/mro_pixhawk.md)
- [Manufacturer-Supported Autopilots](../flight_controller/autopilot_manufacturer_supported.md)
  - [AIRLink](../flight_controller/airlink.md)
  - [AirMind MindPX](../flight_controller/mindpx.md)
  - [AirMind MindRacer](../flight_controller/mindracer.md)
  - [ARK Electronics ARKV6X](../flight_controller/arkv6x.md) (and [ARK Electronics Pixhawk Autopilot Bus Carrier](../flight_controller/arkpab.md))
  - [CUAV X7](../flight_controller/cuav_x7.md)
  - [CUAV Nora](../flight_controller/cuav_nora.md)
  - [CUAV V5+ (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/cuav_v5_plus.md)
  - [CUAV V5 nano (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/cuav_v5_nano.md)
  - [Cube Orange+](../flight_controller/cubepilot_cube_orangeplus.md) (CubePilot)
  - [Cube Orange](../flight_controller/cubepilot_cube_orange.md) (CubePilot)
  - [Cube Yellow](../flight_controller/cubepilot_cube_yellow.md) (CubePilot)
  - [Drotek Dropix (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/dropix.md)
  - [Holybro Kakute H7 v2](../flight_controller/kakuteh7v2.md)
  - [Holybro Kakute H7](../flight_controller/kakuteh7.md)
  - [Holybro Kakute F7](../flight_controller/kakutef7.md)
  - [Holybro Durandal](../flight_controller/durandal.md)
  - [Holybro Pix32 v5](../flight_controller/holybro_pix32_v5.md)
  - [ModalAI Flight Core v1](../flight_controller/modalai_fc_v1.md)
  - [ModalAI VOXL Flight](../flight_controller/modalai_voxl_flight.md)
  - [ModalAI VOXL 2](../flight_controller/modalai_voxl_2.md)
  - [mRobotics-X2.1 (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/mro_x2.1.md)
  - [mRo Control Zero](../flight_controller/mro_control_zero_f7.md)
  - [NXP RDDRONE-FMUK66 FMU](../flight_controller/nxp_rddrone_fmuk66.md)
  - [SP Racing H7 EXTREME](../flight_controller/spracingh7extreme.md)
  - [ThePeach FCC-K1](../flight_controller/thepeach_k1.md)
  - [ThePeach FCC-R1](../flight_controller/thepeach_r1.md)
- [Experimental Autopilots](../flight_controller/autopilot_experimental.md)
  - [Raspberry Pi 2/3 Navio2](../flight_controller/raspberry_pi_navio2.md)
  - [Raspberry Pi 2/3/4 PilotPi](../flight_controller/raspberry_pi_pilotpi.md)
  - [BeagleBone Blue](../flight_controller/beaglebone_blue.md)
  - [Bitcraze Crazyflie 2.0](../complete_vehicles_mc/crazyflie2.md)
  - [Bitcraze Crazyflie 2.1](../complete_vehicles_mc/crazyflie21.md)
- [Discontinued](../flight_controller/autopilot_discontinued.md)
  - [Omnibus F4 SD](../flight_controller/omnibus_f4_sd.md)
  - [3DR Pixhawk 1 (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/pixhawk.md)
  - [Aerotenna OcPoC-Zynq Mini](../flight_controller/ocpoc_zynq.md)
  - [CUAV v5 (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/cuav_v5.md)
  - [Holybro Pixfalcon (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/pixfalcon.md)
  - [mRo AUAV-X2](../flight_controller/auav_x2.md)
  - [Qualcomm Snapdragon Flight](../flight_controller/snapdragon_flight.md)
  - Intel® Aero RTF Drone

Commit message:

lots of general fixes around sensor page and compasses

en/flight_controller/README.md, after:

# Flight Controller (Autopilot) Hardware

Flight Controllers (FCs) are the autopilot hardware onto which PX4 firmware is uploaded.

This section provides information about how to mount the flight controller, upload firmware (replacing an incompatible bootloader if needed), and configure its orientation.

- [Mounting the Flight Controller](../assembly/mount_and_orient_controller.md)
- [Updating Firmware](../config/firmware.md)
- [Sensor Orientation](../config/flight_controller_orientation.md)
- [Level Horizon Calibration](../config/level_horizon_calibration.md)
- [Advanced Controller Orientation](../advanced_config/advanced_flight_controller_orientation_leveling.md)
- [Bootloader Update](../advanced_config/bootloader_update.md)

PX4-compatible flight controllers documented in this library are listed below.
There are other compatible flight controllers and variants, including those [documented here on Github](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/#supported-hardware).

- [Pixhawk Series](../flight_controller/pixhawk_series.md)
  - [Silicon Errata](../flight_controller/silicon_errata.md)
- [Pixhawk Standard/Supported Autopilots](../flight_controller/autopilot_pixhawk_standard.md)
  - [CUAV Pixhack v3 (FMUv3)](../flight_controller/pixhack_v3.md)
  - [CUAV Pixhawk V6X (FMUv6X)](../flight_controller/cuav_pixhawk_v6x.md)
  - [Drotek Pixhawk 3 Pro (FMUv4pro)](../flight_controller/pixhawk3_pro.md) - Discontinued
  - [Hex Cube Black (FMUv3)](../flight_controller/pixhawk-2.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 4 (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/pixhawk4.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 4 Mini (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/pixhawk4_mini.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 5X (FMUv5X)](../flight_controller/pixhawk5x.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 6X (FMUv6X)](../flight_controller/pixhawk6x.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 6C (FMUv6C)](../flight_controller/pixhawk6c.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk 6C Mini (FMUv6C)](../flight_controller/pixhawk6c_mini.md)
  - [Holybro Pixhawk Mini (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/pixhawk_mini.md)
  - [Holybro pix32 (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/holybro_pix32.md)
  - [Holybro pix32 v6 (FMUv6C)](../flight_controller/holybro_pix32_v6.md)
  - [mRo Pixracer (FMUv4)](../flight_controller/pixracer.md)
  - [mRo Pixhawk (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/mro_pixhawk.md)
- [Manufacturer-Supported Autopilots](../flight_controller/autopilot_manufacturer_supported.md)
  - [AIRLink](../flight_controller/airlink.md)
  - [AirMind MindPX](../flight_controller/mindpx.md)
  - [AirMind MindRacer](../flight_controller/mindracer.md)
  - [ARK Electronics ARKV6X](../flight_controller/arkv6x.md) (and [ARK Electronics Pixhawk Autopilot Bus Carrier](../flight_controller/arkpab.md))
  - [CUAV X7](../flight_controller/cuav_x7.md)
  - [CUAV Nora](../flight_controller/cuav_nora.md)
  - [CUAV V5+ (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/cuav_v5_plus.md)
  - [CUAV V5 nano (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/cuav_v5_nano.md)
  - [Cube Orange+](../flight_controller/cubepilot_cube_orangeplus.md) (CubePilot)
  - [Cube Orange](../flight_controller/cubepilot_cube_orange.md) (CubePilot)
  - [Cube Yellow](../flight_controller/cubepilot_cube_yellow.md) (CubePilot)
  - [Drotek Dropix (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/dropix.md)
  - [Holybro Kakute H7 v2](../flight_controller/kakuteh7v2.md)
  - [Holybro Kakute H7](../flight_controller/kakuteh7.md)
  - [Holybro Kakute F7](../flight_controller/kakutef7.md)
  - [Holybro Durandal](../flight_controller/durandal.md)
  - [Holybro Pix32 v5](../flight_controller/holybro_pix32_v5.md)
  - [ModalAI Flight Core v1](../flight_controller/modalai_fc_v1.md)
  - [ModalAI VOXL Flight](../flight_controller/modalai_voxl_flight.md)
  - [ModalAI VOXL 2](../flight_controller/modalai_voxl_2.md)
  - [mRobotics-X2.1 (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/mro_x2.1.md)
  - [mRo Control Zero](../flight_controller/mro_control_zero_f7.md)
  - [NXP RDDRONE-FMUK66 FMU](../flight_controller/nxp_rddrone_fmuk66.md)
  - [SP Racing H7 EXTREME](../flight_controller/spracingh7extreme.md)
  - [ThePeach FCC-K1](../flight_controller/thepeach_k1.md)
  - [ThePeach FCC-R1](../flight_controller/thepeach_r1.md)
- [Experimental Autopilots](../flight_controller/autopilot_experimental.md)
  - [Raspberry Pi 2/3 Navio2](../flight_controller/raspberry_pi_navio2.md)
  - [Raspberry Pi 2/3/4 PilotPi](../flight_controller/raspberry_pi_pilotpi.md)
  - [BeagleBone Blue](../flight_controller/beaglebone_blue.md)
  - [Bitcraze Crazyflie 2.0](../complete_vehicles_mc/crazyflie2.md)
  - [Bitcraze Crazyflie 2.1](../complete_vehicles_mc/crazyflie21.md)
- [Discontinued](../flight_controller/autopilot_discontinued.md)
  - [Omnibus F4 SD](../flight_controller/omnibus_f4_sd.md)
  - [3DR Pixhawk 1 (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/pixhawk.md)
  - [Aerotenna OcPoC-Zynq Mini](../flight_controller/ocpoc_zynq.md)
  - [CUAV v5 (FMUv5)](../flight_controller/cuav_v5.md)
  - [Holybro Pixfalcon (FMUv2)](../flight_controller/pixfalcon.md)
  - [mRo AUAV-X2](../flight_controller/auav_x2.md)
  - [Qualcomm Snapdragon Flight](../flight_controller/snapdragon_flight.md)
  - Intel® Aero RTF Drone
